Q:Where we use public subnet?
Q:How you  connecting to VPC?
VPN

very often we should update the m/c
 -- security update
 -- patching

-- We have a servers in private subnet and we need i/n access for security    updates,patches or enchancements
   This can be configuring by
   NAT Instance
   NAT Gateway

Setting up NAT instance:

1) Create NAT instance in public subnet with public ip
2) Modifying the routing table of private subnet by adding a route NAT instance.
3) NAT instance nothing but ec2instance only.
4) Choose Community AMIs, search for NAT and select
5) while using NAT we should disable source destination check.
   goto-->Action--> Networking -->Change source/Dest.Check
-- NAT is kind of mediator.
-- NAT is not a source of trafic and it takes the trafic and passing to private    subnet.
-- NAT itself  not a source of trafic and a destination it in b/w private and public network.

NAT gateway:

VPC Dashboard-->Start Create vpc

Diff b/w NAT(Network Address Translator) Instance and NAT gatway.
1) NAT instance Infrastructure as a Service
    we should maintain. 
    we should update services. download the updates and run.
    perfomance issue - we should take care
    security updates - we should update
We need write script to make it high available.
     Perfomance tuning should be done by us
Note: Load balance for perfomance.
2) NAT g/w its plotform as a servcie(managed services)
    No need maintain from our side.
     HA is implicity maintained by AWS.

Note: prefer NAT g/w 
word: Be in the position of explain single line

Security Group:

-- Its acts like firewall for the EC2 instance.
-- Ec2 must have minimum 1 sg and maximum 5 per Elastic N/w Interface.(ENI)
-- Controlls Incoming and Outgoing traffic.
-- Modification of a rule takes effect immediatly i.e on fly.
--** Sg is statefull i.e there is incoming http traffic allow by sg this traffic leaves out without checking what is o/b rules.
--  source for Inbound rule CIDR,IP or sg.

For inbound rule sg can be source.












