EBS volume:

one volume can be attached to only one instance at a time.
instance can have multiple volumes
you can resize volume, you can increase the size but cann't decrease.
snapshots are stored in s3

snapshot are incremental.i.e new snapshot contains the which is added previous snapshot.
each volume max provide 10000 IOPS

Provisios IOPS not a free for free trial. you have for volumes + IOPS

Root volume is where os installed.
Volumen Type:  General Purpose SDD
               Provision Purpose SDD - databases - 
			   Throughput Optimised HDD
			    - Designed for throughpout intensive workloads
				- Use it when you have frequently accessed data
				- Storage cost is more when compared with cold HDD
				
			   Cold HDD - storing for longtime
			   thoughput - 100mb per sec, when access the data then will charge. you access frequently charges are more.
			   magentic - for legacy application which give best performance then go with magentic.
			   
			   
Qu:

As of today we can get max 80,000 IOPS per instance while using SSD but application may need more than 80,000 how to you achieve that
Ans: By configuring RAID

Choose: SSD type if domenent perfomace is IOPS
IO block size is small.
			   
			   
			   
IOPS: read data,write data.			   

Task:


Create a volume and attache to Ec2 instance

Steps:
size - 15GB- 30GB is the limit.


Detach a volume from instance and attach it to other instance.

resize volume

Take a backup of volume

Create a instance with Instance storeage.

steps: goto community AMI - select centos



Restore volume - 

- goto action - create volume


Encrpt the volume
  select the option with Encrypt the volume
  
  
attache multiple volumes to instance.



Instance Store:

- Is an temporary storage.data stored on it lost when you stop instance.
- They are upto 90% cheaper than EBS.



EC2 Purchase Options:
  1. On demand Instances
     a. No long term commitment
  2. Reserved Instances
  
  3. Spot Instances
     - based on biding - 90% cost savings- 
  
  4. Dedicated hosts
     -Dedicated Physical servers they will give not VM.
  
  How to purchase instances:
  
  
  














